website/integrations: Add Keycloak integration (#17813)
goauthentik/authentik: website/integrations/infrastructure/keycloak/index.mdx

---
title: Integrate with Keycloak
sidebar_label: Keycloak
support_level: community
---

import TabItem from "@theme/TabItem";
import Tabs from "@theme/Tabs";

## What is Keycloak

> Keycloak is an open-source IAM platform. It can both be used as an Identity Provider and as an application. This guide is for configuring Keycloak as an application.
>
> -- https://keycloak.org

## Preparation

The following placeholders are used in this guide:

> - `keycloak.company` is the FQDN of your Keycloak company portal.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `keycloak.company` is the FQDN of the Keycloak installation.
```

- **Application**: provide a descriptive name, an optional group for the type of application, the policy engine mode, and optional UI settings. Take note of the **slug** as it will be required later.
- **Choose a Provider type**: select **SAML Provider** as the provider type.
- **Configure the Provider**: provide a name (or accept the auto-provided name), the authorization flow to use for this provider, and the following required configurations.
    - Note the **slug** value because it will be required later.
    - Set the **ACS URL** to `https://keycloak.company/realms/<keycloak-realm-name>/broker/saml/endpoint`.
    - Set the **Issuer** to `authentik`.
    - Set the **Service Provider Binding** to `Post`.
    - Set the **SLS URL** to `https://keycloak.company/realms/<keycloak-realm-name>/broker/saml/endpoint`.
    - Set the **SLS Binding** to `Post`.
    - Set the **Logout Method** to `Back-channel (POST)`.
    - Set the **Audience** to `https://keycloak.company/realms/<keycloak-realm-name>`.
    - Under **Advanced protocol settings**, set **Signing Certificate** to use any available certificate.

> - **Configure Bindings** _(optional)_: you can create a [binding](/docs/add-secure-apps/flows-stages/bindings/) (policy, group, or user) to manage the listing and access to applications on a user's **My applications** page.

Author: fixed

3. Click **Submit** to save the new application and provider.

## Keycloak configuration

1. Log in to Keycloak as an administrator.
2. Navigate to **Configure** > **Identity Providers** and click **SAML v2.0**.
3. Set the **Service provider entity ID** to `https://authentik.company/application/saml/<slug>/metadata/`

4. Click **Submit**.

  </TabItem>

> </Tabs>

Reviewer: There needs to be a configuration verification section and resources section.

## authentik configuration

To support the integration of Keycloak with authentik, you need to create an application/provider pair in authentik.

### Create an application and provider in authentik

1. Log in to authentik as an administrator and open the authentik Admin interface.
2. Navigate to **Applications** > **Applications** and click **Create with Provider** to create an application and provider pair. (Alternatively you can first create a provider separately, then create the application and connect it with the provider.)
    - **Application**: provide a descriptive name, an optional group for the type of application, the policy engine mode, and optional UI settings. Take note of the **slug** as it will be required later.
    - **Choose a Provider type**: select **SAML Provider** as the provider type.
    - **Configure the Provider**: provide a name (or accept the auto-provided name), the authorization flow to use for this provider, and the following required configurations.
        - Note the **slug** value because it will be required later.
        - Set the **ACS URL** to `https://keycloak.company/realms/<keycloak-realm-name>/broker/saml/endpoint`.

>         - Set the **Issuer** to `authentik`.

Reviewer 2: Works for me. Can you add it as a github issue just to ensure it doesn't slip through the cracks?

>         - Set the **Issuer** to `authentik`.

Author: yeah that's a really good suggestion, let me do that rq
